# Designing of a biphasic variable stiffnessactuator for driving the 2-DOFanthropomorphic arm

## Abstract

Recently,  the  importance  of  compliant  (non-stiff)  robots  is  increas-ing. Thus, there is a need to provide safe interaction between humansand robots. This thesis develops the new design of the variable stiff-ness actuator (VSA) based on the concept developed and presentedin the Doctor of Philosophy dissertation of Jesus Hiram Lugo in 2019.The actuator aims to actuate the position of the piston by changingthe volume of the controlled liquid. At the same time being able toindependently  control  the  stiffness,  by  adjusting  the  volume  of  thegas, which is surrounding the head of the piston from both sides, bymeans  of  the  floating  pistons.  Both  liquid  and  gas  are  used  as  thecontrol fluids in the control system that will not be developed in thethesis. Firstly, the design optimization process will be done in orderto  determine  the  dimensions  of  the  piston  required  to  drive  the  2-DOF human-like manipulator. Whereas, the range of stiffness of thehuman arm will be determined experimentally due to the lack of ex-ternal researches on this topic. As a result, when the properties forthe  VSA  will  be  defined  the  design  optimization  of  the  mechanismof  the  manipulator  will  be  done.  In  this  project,  to  provide  the  ro-tational motion to the link with the actuator, that is producing thetranslational motion, the Hoeken’s linkage will be used and discussed.Based on the outcome from the mechanism design optimization, thebasic dynamic analysis of the manipulator will be done presenting themanipulator as a simple planar mechanism that consists of 2 links and2 revolute joints. Euler-Lagrange equations will be used to calculatethe torque needed to get the system moving. Finally, the force neededto create the required torque will be computed and the benefits of theHoeken’s linkage for the designed VSA will be argued.

